70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.
Unlike humans, cats are usually lefties. Studies indicate that their left paw is typically their dominant paw.
Spanish-Jewish folklore recounts that Adam’s first wife, Lilith, became a black vampire cat, sucking the blood from sleeping babies. This may be the root of the superstition that a cat will smother a sleeping baby or suck out the child’s breath.
Cats must have fat in their diet because they can't produce it on their own.
Cats control the outer ear using 32 muscles; humans use 6
A cat's appetite is the barometer of its health. Any cat that does not eat or drink for more than two days should be taken to a vet.
In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.
A cat's hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.
Tigers are excellent swimmers and do not avoid water.
There are approximately 60,000 hairs per square inch on the back of a cat and about 120,000 per square inch on its underside.
A 2007 Gallup poll revealed that both men and women were equally likely to own a cat.
The Maine Coon is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.
In contrast to dogs, cats have not undergone major changes during their domestication process.
A cat's appetite is the barometer of its health. Any cat that does not eat or drink for more than two days should be taken to a vet.
Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.
Cats purr at the same frequency as an idling diesel engine, about 26 cycles per second.
Normal body temperature for a cat is 102 degrees F.
The group of words associated with cat (catt, cath, chat, katze) stem from the Latin catus, meaning domestic cat, as opposed to feles, or wild cat.
Miacis, the primitive ancestor of cats, was a small, tree-living creature of the late Eocene period, some 45 to 50 million years ago.
In just seven years, a single pair of cats and their offspring could produce a staggering total of 420,000 kittens.
Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman’s body and a cat’s head.
Isaac Newton invented the cat flap. Newton was experimenting in a pitch-black room. Spithead, one of his cats, kept opening the door and wrecking his experiment. The cat flap kept both Newton and Spithead happy.
A cat has the power to sometimes heal themselves by purring. A domestic cat's purr has a frequency of between 25 and 150 Hertz, which happens to be the frequency at which muscles and bones best grow and repair themselves. 
The average litter of kittens is between 2 - 6 kittens.
Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.
The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.
Florence Nightingale owned more than 60 cats in her lifetime.
Female felines are \superfecund
There are approximately 100 breeds of cat.
A group of cats is called a clowder.
Cats can predict earthquakes. We humans are not 100% sure how they do it. There are several different theories.
The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.
An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.
A group of cats is called a clowder.
A cat’s nose pad is ridged with a unique pattern, just like the fingerprint of a human.
Cats do not think that they are little people. They think that we are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.
The average litter of kittens is between 2 - 6 kittens.
Cats are North America’s most popular pets: there are 73 million cats compared to 63 million dogs. Over 30% of households in North America own a cat.
The lightest cat on record is a blue point Himalayan called Tinker Toy, who weighed 1 pound, 6 ounces (616 g). Tinker Toy was 2.75 inches (7 cm) tall and 7.5 inches (19 cm) long.
Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy. Cats will also purr loudly when they are distressed or in pain.
Cats can predict earthquakes. We humans are not 100% sure how they do it. There are several different theories.
Owning a cat is actually proven to be beneficial for your health.
Among many other diseases, cats can suffer from anorexia, senility, feline AIDS and acne.
A cat's smell is their strongest sense, and they rely on this leading sense to identify people and objects; a feline's sense of smell is 14x better than a human's.
A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, but the cat has 230 (some cites list 245 bones, and state that bones may fuse together as the cat ages).
The way you treat kittens in the early stages of it's life will render it's personality traits later in life.
A cat's jaw has only up and down motion; it does not have any lateral, side to side motion, like dogs and humans.
The first cartoon cat was Felix the Cat in 1919. In 1940, Tom and Jerry starred in the first theatrical cartoon “Puss Gets the Boot.” In 1981 Andrew Lloyd Weber created the musical Cats, based on T.S. Eliot’s Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats.
Cats walk on their toes.
The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat. In fact, the breed is so ancient that its name is the Egyptian word for “cat.”
The tiniest cat on record is Mr. Pebbles, a 2-year-old cat that weighed 3 lbs (1.3 k) and was 6.1 inches (15.5 cm) high.
Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.
Blue-eyed, white cats are often prone to deafness.
A happy cat holds her tail high and steady.
Siamese kittens are born white because of the heat inside the mother's uterus before birth. This heat keeps the kittens' hair from darkening on the points.
While it is commonly thought that the ancient Egyptians were the first to domesticate cats, the oldest known pet cat was recently found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. This grave predates early Egyptian art depicting cats by 4,000 years or more.
Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.
The average lifespan of an outdoor-only cat is about 3 to 5 years while an indoor-only cat can live 16 years or much longer.
According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.
The group of words associated with cat (catt, cath, chat, katze) stem from the Latin catus, meaning domestic cat, as opposed to feles, or wild cat.
Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.
A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.
The cat's footpads absorb the shocks of the landing when the cat jumps.
Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.
Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible.
Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.
Cats prefer to remain non-confrontational. They will not fight to show dominance, but rather to stake their territory. Cats will actually go to extremes to avoid one another in order to prevent a possible confrontation.
Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.
Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.
When a cats rubs up against you, the cat is marking you with it's scent claiming ownership.
During the time of the Spanish Inquisition, Pope Innocent VIII condemned cats as evil and thousands of cats were burned. Unfortunately, the widespread killing of cats led to an explosion of the rat population, which exacerbated the effects of the Black Death.
The Maine Coon is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.
A female cat is called a queen or a molly.
Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.
Cats are the world's most popular pets, outnumbering dogs by as many as three to one
Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).
Cats have 30 vertebrae (humans have 33 vertebrae during early development; 26 after the sacral and coccygeal regions fuse)
In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.
Cats' eyes shine in the dark because of the tapetum, a reflective layer in the eye, which acts like a mirror.
The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled since 1930 - from 8 to 16 years.
When your cats rubs up against you, she is actually marking you as 'hers' with her scent. If your cat pushes his face against your head, it is a sign of acceptance and affection.
Cats, just like people, are subject to asthma. Dust, smoke, and other forms of air pullution in your cat's environment can be troublesome sources of irritation.
The tiniest cat on record is Mr. Pebbles, a 2-year-old cat that weighed 3 lbs (1.3 k) and was 6.1 inches (15.5 cm) high.
The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.
The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!
A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.
An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.
Cats sleep 16 to 18 hours per day. When cats are asleep, they are still alert to incoming stimuli. If you poke the tail of a sleeping cat, it will respond accordingly.
Cats have supersonic hearing
A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans. Cats typically will spit, purr, and hiss at other cats.
Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.
All cats have claws, and all except the cheetah sheath them when at rest.
Miacis, the primitive ancestor of cats, was a small, tree-living creature of the late Eocene period, some 45 to 50 million years ago.
A cat can jump 5 times as high as it is tall.
The Maine Coon cat is America's only natural breed of domestic feline. It is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.
 A cat only has the ability to move their jaw up and down, not side to side like a human can.
The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago. Scientists called it the Proailurus, which means “first cat” in Greek. The group of animals that pet cats belong to emerged around 12 million years ago.
Isaac Newton invented the cat flap. Newton was experimenting in a pitch-black room. Spithead, one of his cats, kept opening the door and wrecking his experiment. The cat flap kept both Newton and Spithead happy.
The first true cats came into existence about 12 million years ago and were the Proailurus.
The oldest cat on record was Crème Puff from Austin, Texas, who lived from 1967 to August 6, 2005, three days after her 38th birthday. A cat typically can live up to 20 years, which is equivalent to about 96 human years.
Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.
Normal body temperature for a cat is 102 degrees F.
The lightest cat on record is a blue point Himalayan called Tinker Toy, who weighed 1 pound, 6 ounces (616 g). Tinker Toy was 2.75 inches (7 cm) tall and 7.5 inches (19 cm) long.
A cat’s back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.
Tylenol and chocolate are both poisionous to cats.
The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.
There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.
A cat’s nose pad is ridged with a unique pattern, just like the fingerprint of a human.
In just seven years, a single pair of cats and their offspring could produce a staggering total of 420,000 kittens.
An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.
In contrast to dogs, cats have not undergone major changes during their domestication process.
A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.
Cats have individual preferences for scratching surfaces and angles. Some are horizontal scratchers while others exercise their claws vertically.
Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.
The Maine Coon cat is America's only natural breed of domestic feline. It is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.
